---
title: "3 Types of Machine Learning"
lesson: 5
---
In order to better understand the numerous different types of machine learning algorithms, they are classified according to how they learn. 

Note: Semi-supervised learning is what some consider a 4th type of machine learning but it is beyond the scope of our current research and can be summarized as a combination of supervised learning with unsupervised learning.

## Supervised Learning

The first type, and most prevalent type, of machine learning is supervised learning. Supervised learning involves feeding the program labeled data and getting (hopefully correct) predictions when new, unlabeled data is fed into the program \cite{ML_MIT}. Described another way, supervised learning is giving a program a data set of correct answers and asking it to produce more right answers for new, unlabeled input data. Supervised learning takes on two forms-- regression and classification:

*Regression* involves predicting continuous valued output such as the price of a house or the temperature on a given day. The most basic regression algorithm is univariate linear regression which takes a single feature and makes a prediction based on that. Continuing the house example, univariate linear regression would take a dataset of house size and price where house size is the feature being used to predict the price. While univariate linear regression is useful for things like lab reports (many applications like excel have this basic functionality built in), multivariate linear regression is used more often in the field of machine learning because it allows the modeling of more complex situations. For example, instead of only predicting the price of a house based on its size, multivariate linear regression would take multiple features as input such as house size, number of bathrooms, number of bedrooms, and much more. By utilizing more data, multivariate linear regression allows a more accurate modeling of the situation. However, more data is not always good, since the features being used to predict the output must be directly related or else the predictions will be less accurate. For instance, in the house price example if an included feature was the color of the walls, this could mislead the algorithm into finding a correlation that does not exist because it is most likely that the color of the walls does not relate to the price of the house.

*Classification* involves predicting discrete valued outputs such as whether a picture is a cat or dog or whether an image of a handwritten digit is 0,1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8, or 9. The cat or dog example is an instance of binary classification where the output is either one thing or the other (0 or 1). The algorithm commonly used in binary classification problems is logistic regression, an algorithm that will be covered in more depth later on in the documentation. The digit classification example is an instance of multi-class classification because there are 10 possible classes (each of the digits) an input could be predicted as. While the logistic regression algorithm can be implemented for multi-class classification, neural networks are another technique used to tackle multi-class classification problems,which we will discuss in depth later in the documentation.

## Unsupervised Learning

The second type of machine learning is unsupervised learning. Unsupervised learning involves feeding the program an unlabeled dataset and asking it to find structures and patterns in the dataset \cite{UnsupervisedLearning}. One of the big advantages of unsupervised learning is that it learns from unlabeled data unlike supervised learning. Sources of unlabeled data are much more common since labeled data almost always has to be curated by humans in some fashion. Unsupervised learning takes on 2 forms-- clustering and association:

*Clustering* involves finding a structure/pattern in a collection of uncategorized data. Clustering algorithms will process unlabeled data and find natural clusters/groups amongst the data \cite{UnsupervisedLearning}.

*Association* involves establishing relationships between data objects in a large data set. Association algorithms focus on discovering interesting relationships between variables in large datasets \cite{UnsupervisedLearning}.

## Reinforcement Learning
The third type, and “latest frontier of machine learning”, is reinforcement learning. Reinforcement algorithms learn through trial and error over thousands of rounds of the desired task \cite{ML_MIT}. For example, DeepMind’s AlphaGo which beat the best human in the world at the very strategic and complex game of Go was trained by playing thousands of games of Go against itself and expert humans in order to learn the best strategies and behaviors to win a game of Go \cite{AlphaGo}. Reinforcement learning is popular with video and board games such as Pong because they have clearly defined objectives (e.g. score the most points) and have clearly defined rewards (e.g. score a point if the ball goes in past the opponent’s paddle). The ability to have clearly defined rewards helps the agent learn the best way to achieve its objective of winning the game. 